[Music]
in popular exercises that don't work at
all it's hard enough finding the time
and motivation to hit the gym so props
to you if you've managed to get past
that initial hurdle but what if the
exercises you're doing are doing nothing
for you
number eight dumbbell loaded side bends
when you do side bends while holding a
dumbbell in each hand you're basically
wasting your time each dumbbell counter
balance is the other so straightening up
doesn't require much muscle effort your
obliques don't need to work since the
weight in your other hand simply pulls
you up Plus this exercise puts a lot of
strain on your spine and the tissues
that serve as shock absorbers as a
result you can rupture a spinal disc if
you want to make your side Bend safer
and more effective use just one dumbbell
but a much better option that won't be
potentially risky for your back is the
side plank crunch to do this exercise
you'll need to get into a side plank
with your left elbow and forearm on the
floor and your right hand touching your
head then while keeping your waist
lifted you should bring your right leg
toward your shoulder touch your right
elbow and return to the initial position
three sets of 10 reps on each side will
be enough this side plank crunch will
improve your balance strengthen your
core and slim down your waist
number seven standing chest fly many
fans of the standing chest fly believe
that the motion of closing and opening
their arms in front of them works their
chest muscles sadly it's far from the
truth if you do this while standing due
to gravity the weights you holding keep
pulling down on your arms consequently
this exercise does nothing for your
chest
it only stresses the rotator cuffs on
your shoulders luckily you can easily
adjust this exercise to make it
effective and safe all you need to do is
lie down take a dumbbell in each hand
and position them above your chest your
elbow should be slightly bent move your
arms to the side slowly after they reach
the floor lift your arms back to the
initial position ten reps will do the
trick
number six smith machine squats squats
are a great exercise that trains your
core butt and legs but by doing squats
with the use of a smith machine
you don't do your body any good a Smith
machine is a popular type of gym
equipment with a weight bar that slides
up and down on a track few people know
that this machine makes you move in an
unnatural way since the bar is fixed
you can't arch your back which is
natural for your body plus there isn't
enough space to adjust the angles of
your joints basically these two
circumstances increase your risk of a
lower back or knee injury try not to
rely on machines too much and do your
squats with free weights or with a bar
weight if you do everything correctly
you don't have to worry about hurting
yourself plus you'll use a lot more of
your body's own natural stabilizing
muscles which will make your workout way
more effective number 5 exercising with
extremely light dumbbells if you don't
follow the overload principle which
means you challenge your muscles to the
max you won't gain strength or build
muscle mass of course using cute little
lightweight dumbbells definitely won't
harm you but they'll also won't be of
any use at all in this case why waste
your time to determine the proper
dumbbell weight for your fitness level
pick one and start to do an exercise if
you manage to do only 8 to 12 reps
that's it you've found your perfect
weight if you can do 15 reps or more the
weight isn't heavy enough number 4 leg
extensions even if you're dreaming of
powerful toned quads using the leg
extension machine isn't the way to go
the thing is that when you sit on this
machine you work your legs separately
from the rest of your body this is
unnatural since your legs weren't
designed to move so much weight upwards
this puts a lot of strain on your knees
particularly the ligaments and tendons
situated there in the end you can easily
hurt this vulnerable part of the body if
you don't have any health limitations
opt for lunges or squats
you'll still used in the extension
motion but you'll simultaneously work
other muscles around the joint as well
while decreasing your risk of a serious
knee injury number three back extensions
with added weight doing extensions isn't
a bad thing especially if you need to
strengthen your core
hyper extension however is a different
story when you use a hyper extension
bench you can over arch your lower back
all too easily
this is particularly risky for those who
have excess abdominal fat
or an inborn exaggerated curve and if
you decide to do this exercise while
holding a weight plate you dramatically
increase your risk of injury
besides extra weight may throw you off
balance a much better way to strengthen
your lower back and work your midsection
is to do back extensions lying on the
floor belly down in this case you should
stretch your arms out in front of you
with your palms down your legs should be
straight lift your right arm and your
left leg off the floor and stretch them
out as much as you can hold it for about
five seconds and then return to the
initial position do the same for the
other side repeat this exercise ten
times on each side
number two crunches it's a common
misconception that doing a bunch of
crunches is your ticket to a stronger
core and a rocking six-pack but experts
are sure that no matter how many
crunches you do this won't rid you of
stubborn belly fat this exercise will
only emphasize a slouching posture that
people get when they sit in a chair all
day if your goal is tight abs nothing
will help you better than planking
unlike crunches the plank involves all
the core muscles tightens your
midsection and reduces back pain it
significantly improves your flexibility
as well when you do this exercise the
muscles around your collarbones
shoulders and shoulder blades stretch
and expand the same happens to the
arches of your feet your hamstrings and
your toes on top of that it's exactly
the plank not crunches that can improve
your posture and benefit your balance
number one the elliptical the elliptical
is a cardio machine loved by many it's
said to be easy on your joints and you
can watch your favorite shows while
getting a portion of your daily exercise
unfortunately this activity doesn't do
much for your body first of all when
using this training equipment you don't
follow your body's natural motion this
means that this exercise isn't as
effective for strengthening your muscles
as let's say running or even walking the
elliptical does burn calories and it can
even make your heart a bit stronger but
it doesn't boost your fitness level at
all the only reason you might want to
use this equipment is if you have an
injury and can't walk run or climb
stairs a great alternative to the
elliptical is a stair Mill it gives you
a perfect aerobic workout while training
all kinds of
so groups throughout your body have you
heard of any other exercises that aren't
worth your time let us know down in the
comments don't forget to give this video
a like share it with your friends and
click subscribe to stay on the bright
side of life
[Music]